Nate Lewis : 
Nate

Nate always comes in excited to get to work. With a bit of reminding from the teachers, he follows the morning routines, unpacks his bag, and gets started on the morning work. Nate is always a great support to the peers around him. We can't wait to see all of the great things he does during the last part of the year together.


Math

Nate comes to math each day with an "I can do it" attitude. He has a solid foundation in his math facts in all four basic operations, evidenced by the increasing accuracy of his computation. He clearly "owns" the multiplication tables and can draw upon his knowledge. Nate can work through most activities independently with some teacher/peer assistance. He will ask for clarification on concepts he is not yet confident in, and works to move forward successfully. He embraces our class challenges and can often self-correct his mistakes without being prompted.

Nate has shown his understanding of place value, estimation, and addition & subtraction of multi-digit numbers through basic algorithms and complex word problems. He can solve multi-digit equations in both multiplication and division with only a few computational errors. He understands both the processes of multiplication and division and is examining the inner workings (why and how these processes work). Nate enjoys the math games and problem solving tasks presented in class. We look forward to watching as he continues to develop as a mathematician.


Reading

Nate is engaged in our novel studies.  Our second unit explored the elements of nonfiction text, culminating with students creating a nonfiction text in collaboration with a small group of peers. During this unit, our focus was on text features, both identifying and utilizing within their own text. We also taught note taking structure through the nonfiction signposts. In order to complete their books, students had to learn and apply research skills and time management techniques. Nate was engaged and focused, requiring little support keeping materials in order. He was a supportive member of his team through his collaboration with teammates. Currently, we are hard at work studying characters, their traits, and author's craft through various fiction texts. We will able to share more of our work during conferences.

Writing

He is learning to develop a topic sentence with several supporting details and a closing sentence.  With some assistance from the teacher, Nate can generate ideas for his writing, constructing outlines and story maps before beginning writing.  Throughout the nonfiction unit (in combination with social studies and science), Nate has worked through the writing process using rubrics and checklists to enable self reflection and editing skills.


Science

Our first science unit focused on "Energy and Electricity". Through hands-on experiences, Nate explored the concepts of kinetic and potential energy, sources of energy in terms of electricity, and how simple circuits function. Nate engaged in these "experiments" head on, happily problem solving any issues and creating new variations when appropriate. Our culminating project was to create an electric car able to travel a certain distance, pull an object of a certain weight, and jump a specific distance. While as a class, we did not find much success with any of these goals, let alone getting our cars to move, Nate refused to give up. He exhausted every possible idea before finally "throwing in the white towel".

Our second science unit is "Rocks and Minerals", something that Nate is very excited to begin. We began our study by looking at the process of weathering (wearing down rocks through constant interaction with wind, water, and ice). The students were assigned to a team and asked to develop an experiment to observe the process, while including their own purpose (which one weathered faster, would different liquids affect the process, etc.). Through this process, Nate worked through the scientific method with minimal support from the teacher. Nate and his group worked together to develop and document their plans, revise and edit those plans based on reflection, new information, or limitations, and finally run their experiment. I look forward to seeing what new and exciting things he comes up with as we continue in our study of "Rocks and Minerals".


Social Studies

It has been a pleasure studying social studies with Nate this semester. Nate asks thought provoking questions, and is able to push our thinking in class discussions. Nate is able to do research in order to collect relevant facts on a topic, as well as formulate his own opinion based on the research. Over the course of the year, Nate has grown in his ability to think critically about and take a position on an issue, and confidently defend his position using facts and figures to support his argument.  When considering current and historical events, Nate can read and summarize articles, as well as formulate questions based on the articles. He participates actively in our class discussions, where he demonstrates a clear and supported opinion with examples from the text.

As Nate has been studying the Northeast and Southeast regions of the United States he is able to determine similarities and differences between the two regions.  More recently, the students were asked to create a "character" persona that they used to determine which region would be more economically advantageous to their character. I look forward to seeing all of the creative learning he continues to share during our work with Westward Expansion during the last part of our year.


